Define Environmental Pollution?
Environmental Pollution is defined as any undesirable change in the physical, chemical, or biological characteristics of any component of the environment (air,water,soil)which can cause harmful effects on various forms of property.
Suggest four important sources of air pollution?
The sources of air pollution are volcanic eruptions, fest fires, biological decay, thermal power plants, vehicular emissions etc.,
What is meant by BOD and COD?
BOD: BOD is the amount of oxygen required for the biological decomposition of organic matter present in the water. COD: COD is the amount of oxygen required f chemical oxidation of organic matter using oxidizing agent.
Name the sources and effects of marine pollution?
Dumping the waste, oil pollution and shipment. Effects: The continuous oil films inhibit photosynthesis and absorption of oxygen. This inhibits the growth of plankton. All aquatic animals depend either directly indirectly on plankton, which is the basis of the tropic chain.
Mention the sources of soil pollution?
Domestic wastes include garbage, rubbish material like glass, plastics, metallic cans, paper, fibers, cloth rags, containers, paints, varnishes etc.
Define green house effect?
The greenhouse effect is a naturally occurring process that makes the earth warmer by trapping more energy in the atmosphere. The green house gases absorb and hold heat from the sun, preventing it from escaping back into the space; much like a green house absorbs and holds the sun’s heat Industrial wastes are the effluents discharged from chemical industries, paper and pulp mills, tanneries, textile mills, steel industries, distilleries, refineries, pesticides and fertilizer industries, pharmaceutical industries, food processing industries, cement industries, thermal and nuclear power plants, mining industries etc.
List the ozone depleting chemicals?
Chlorofluorocarbons (CFC) are responsible for ozone layer depletion.
What are the effects of Global warning?
a) More heat waves b) Expansion of desert area c) Natural fires in forestlands d) More evaporation of water from oceans and water bodies e) Melting of ice caps in Arctic and Antarctica regions f) More cloud formation in the atmosphere. g) Shorter and warmer winters and longer and shorter summer. h) Changes in pattern of rainfall i) Rise in sea level j) Flooding and submergence of low lying coastal areas

 









